# Final Project: Quiz

CS50 - Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

For my final project I decided to build a quiz app that teachers can use to make their classes, or review lessons more engaging.  The teacher can create questions, add them to a game, and then play the game by broadcasting individually each question in the game to the entire class.  The project is based on Flask-SocketIO.  It uses python, obviously, as well as heavily relying on JavaScript for the websocket implementation.  There is a large database component as well using Postgresql in order to handle storing teacher login credentials, as well as storing questions, and games.  Although students are not stored in the database, I used it to hold student information temporarily, until the game is over, and the results are calculated.

The main application is the quiz.py file.  It is broken up into several main sections.  The teacher login section for logging in, registering, and logging out.  The teacher game creation section, responsible for adding questions, and creating games, as well as deleting and editing them.  The student section controls the student html view, as well as performs adding students to the database.  The game control section controls the view associated with the game_control.html page.  This shows the teacher the questions in the game, and allows her to choose which question to broadcast to the class, and when, as well as initiate the end of a game.  It also shows which students are playing when viewed on larger screens.  This section also has the code responsible for the view the student sees (the /game/<string:teacher> route).  Next is the sockets section, where the server broadcasts questions (the 'play' socket), and listens to the teacher and student clients for messages to make the game flow.  Here students and teachers join Flask-SocketIO rooms (room name is the teacher username), students can log out, and teachers can initiate an end to the game via the 'calculate results' socket, and then finally end the game.  Once that is initiated, the results section handles the teacher and student views for each to see the corresponding results, and then finally an end game section, to clear everything and end the game.

The html files are as follows.  The game_control.html file is the main page where the teacher sends questions to students, who receive them on the game.html page.  At the end of the game, the teacher is taken to the results.html page where she can see all the students' results, while students are taken to the score.html page, where they can see their individual results.  Teacher's also have access to pages teacher.html, edit_game.html, question.html where she can create questions and games, edit them, delete them, and initiate the start of a game.  There is of course login page for the teacher, while students do not log in, they just join a Flask-SocketIO room, which is the same as the teacher's username, which they access via the student.html page.  Finally an end page where sessions are cleared, and a thank you thanks the students who finished the game.

The javascript files corresponding to the html files are mostly being used to handle the socket information being transmitted back and forth from the server and client.  I've also incorporated typeahead, https://github.com/twitter/typeahead.js/, to make it easier for students to search for their teacher. This is in the student.js file.   

The working website is at https://raphael-quiz.herokuapp.com/
The github is at https://github.com/raphaeluziel/quiz
